feat: Add glossary (#79)
superfaceai/docs: docs/reference/glossary.md

---
slug: '/reference/glossary'
displayed_sidebar: referenceSidebar
---

# Glossary

## Use case {#use-case}

> _Use case_ or _integration use case_ describes what the business needs from a specific integration. Technically the use case defines an interface between the application and the integration provider, schema for input and output (result) data, possible error conditions, and documentation. It is part of the [profile](#profile).

Reviewer: **maybe** find a better word for "business"? (here it's detached from the phrase "business use case" (or "business logic", even) and sounds like SF is just for companies)

> _Use case_ or _integration use case_ describes what the business needs from a specific integration. Technically the use case defines an interface between the application and the integration provider, schema for input and output (result) data, possible error conditions, and documentation. It is part of the [profile](#profile).

Author: I understand your point but I can't think of any better sounding alternatives. Something like "domain-specific needs" or similar? Let's land it as it is, we can refine this later.

For example, the [Send SMS Message](https://superface.ai/communication/send-sms@2.0) (`SendMessage`) expects recipient's phone number, sender's phone number, and the text message contents. It will return a message ID as the result.

Use case is written with the [Comlink Profile language](#comlink), for example:

```hcl
"""
Send SMS Message
Send single text message
"""
usecase SendMessage unsafe {
  input {
    "Recipient of the message"
    to string

    "Sender of the message"
    from string

    "The text of the message"
    text string
  }

  result {
    "Identifier of Message"
    messageId string
  }
}
```

## Profile {#profile}

> _Profile_ contains one or more [use cases](#use-case) along with the version and a general documentation for the group of use cases. It is identified by a name with an optional scope separated with a slash, for example: `communication/send-sms`. Optionally, the profile can be scoped to a specific version, for example: `communication/send-sms@2.0.1`. Profiles are versioned with [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) to facilitate for breaking changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _profile_ contains one or more [use cases](#use-case), along with the version and general documentation for that group of use cases. It is identified by a name, with an optional scope separated by a slash, for example: `communication/send-sms`. Optionally, the profile can be scoped to a specific version, for example: `communication/send-sms@2.0.1`. Profiles are versioned with [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) to facilitate for breaking changes.
```

Reviewer: Also "facilitate for breaking changes" doesn't work (sounds kind of like semver *helps you make breaking changes*)

- *signal* breaking changes?
- *handle* breaking changes?

Author: Good point, how about "indicate"?

```suggestion
	A _profile_ contains one or more [use cases](#use-case), along with the version and general documentation for that group of use cases. It is identified by a name, with an optional scope separated by a slash, for example: `communication/send-sms`. Optionally, the profile can be scoped to a specific version, for example: `communication/send-sms@2.0.1`. Profiles are versioned with [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) to indicate breaking changes.
```

Reviewer: Indicate! That works :)

> Profile's file has an extension `.supr` and it is _installed_ with the Superface CLI, forming a static part of the integration.

Author: How about:

```suggestion
Profile's file has an extension `.supr` and it is _installed_ with the Superface CLI. It should be committed and kept with the application's code.
```

Profile is written with the [Comlink Profile language](#comlink), for example:

```hcl title="communication/send-sms.supr"
"""
Send SMS Message
Send a single SMS message or retrieve its status.
"""

name = "communication/send-sms"
version = "2.0.1"

// First use case definition:
usecase SendMessage unsafe {
  // use case body
}

// Second use case definition:
"""
Message Status
Retrieve status of a sent SMS message
"""
usecase RetrieveMessageStatus safe {
  // use case body
}

// Shared fields and models:
field messageId string

field deliveryStatus enum {
  accepted
  delivered
  seen
  unknown
  failed
}
```

## Map {#map}

> _Map_ defines a [provider](#provider)-specific logic to fulfill the use case: what API endpoints need to be called, how to format requests and responses, and how an authentication is performed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Map_ defines a [provider](#provider)-specific logic to fulfill the use case, i.e. what API endpoints need to be called, how to format requests and responses, and how authentication is performed.
```

> Maps are fetched by [OneSDK](#one-sdk) in the runtime (i.e. when the particular profile is used with the particular provider for the first time) and can be also updated in the runtime (e.g. to fix handle a breaking changes in the provider's API).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Maps are fetched by [OneSDK](#one-sdk) at runtime (i.e., when the particular profile is used with the particular provider for the first time) and can be also updated at runtime (e.g., to fix/handle breaking changes in the provider's API).
```

> Map file has an extension `.suma` and it is written in the [Comlink Map language](#comlink). It specifies the name of the provider and the profile, along with its major and minor version. For each use case defined in the respective profile, there is a corresponding `map` directive inside the map file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Map files have an extension `.suma`, and are written in the [Comlink Map language](#comlink). They specify the name of the provider and the profile, along with its major and minor version. For each use case defined in the respective profile, there is a corresponding `map` directive inside the map file.
```

Example of the map for `communication/send-sms` profile and the provider `twilio`:

```hcl title="communication/send-sms.twilio.suma"
profile = "communication/send-sms@2.0"
provider = "twilio"

map SendMessage {
  http POST "/2010-04-01/Accounts/{parameters.accountSid}/Messages.json" {
    security "basic"

    request "application/x-www-form-urlencoded" {
      body {
        To = input.to,
        From = input.from,
        Body = input.text
      }
    }

    response 201 "application/json" {
      map result {
        messageId = body.sid
      }
    }
  }
}

map RetrieveMessageStatus {
  // body of the RetrieveMessageStatus logic
}
```

## Provider {#provider}

> _Provider_ or _integration provider_ defines a set of base URLs (services), security schemes, and [integration parameters](#integration-parameter). This information is used for reusability between maps and as a security measure. Maps cannot send requests outside of services defined and cannot read values passed to the authentication scheme.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Provider_ (or _integration provider_) defines a set of base URLs (services), security schemes, and [integration parameters](#integration-parameter). This information is used for reusability between maps, and as a security measure. Maps cannot send requests outside of defined services, and cannot read values passed to the authentication scheme.
```

:::info Provider vs. company

> From Superface perspective, single provider doesn't have to correspond to a single company. Large companies, like Google, have multiple unrelated APIs, each with its own provider, e.g. `google-apis-maps` or `google-apis-computer-vision`. On the other hand, your provider can specify services from unrelated companies if you need to use these services in a single map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the perspective of Superface, a single provider does not have to correspond to a single company. Large companies, like Google, often have multiple unrelated APIs, each with its own provider (e.g. `google-apis-maps` or `google-apis-computer-vision`). Conversely, your provider can specify services from unrelated companies, if you need to use these services in a single map.
```

Reviewer: "use these services in a single map" -> "use these services in a single use case" ?

Author: > "use these services in a single use case"

I don't think it is so accurate, since map is bound to a particular provider. So you can have multiple use cases and each use a different service, but they are still defined in a single profile / map.

:::

> Provider definition is a JSON file adhering to the [Comlink Provider schema](#comlink). The provider is _configured_ by the Superface CLI for particular profiles, which enables the respective maps to be used by [OneSDK](#one-sdk) in the runtime. Provider is identified by its name, for example: `twilio`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provider definition is a JSON file adhering to the [Comlink Provider schema](#comlink). The provider is _configured_ by the Superface CLI for particular profiles, which enables the respective maps to be used by [OneSDK](#one-sdk) in the runtime. A *provider* is identified by its name, for example: `twilio`.
```

:::caution Provider name limitations

> Name of the provider cannot contain numbers to avoid typosquatting attacks. If you are publishing a provider into the registry, its name must start with `unverified-` prefix, e.g. `unverified-twilio`. See [Verification](../verification.mdx) for further details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provider name cannot contain numbers to avoid typosquatting attacks. Furthermore, if you are publishing a provider into the registry, its name must start with `unverified-` prefix, e.g. `unverified-twilio`. See [Verification](../verification.mdx) for further details.
```

:::

Example of the `twilio` provider:

```json title="twilio.provider.json"
{
  "name": "twilio",
  "services": [
    {
      "id": "default",
      "baseUrl": "https://api.twilio.com"
    }
  ],
  "defaultService": "default",
  "securitySchemes": [
    {
      "id": "basic",
      "type": "http",
      "scheme": "basic"
    }
  ],
  "parameters": [
    {
      "name": "accountSid",
      "description": "Account security identifier"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Integration parameter {#integration-parameter}

> _Integration parameters_ are provider-specific values, which can be used in maps and provider definitions. Parameter's value can be specified either through an environment variable, via [super.json file](#super-json), or in runtime within the [`perform` method](./one-sdk.mdx#perform).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Integration parameters_ are provider-specific values which can be used in maps and provider definitions. A parameter's value can be specified either via an environment variable, in the [super.json file](#super-json), or at runtime as an argument of the [`perform()` method](./one-sdk.mdx#perform).
```

The public registry is available at [superface.ai](https://superface.ai/catalog). Integrations available in the public catalog are maintained and published from the [Station GitHub repository](https://github.com/superfaceai/station).

> 

Reviewer 2: I think _Registry_ section can be moved under _Integration parameter_.

It will make the transitions between _Provider → Parameter_ and _Registry → OneSDK_ more fluent I guess. I know this is not necessarily a continuous text, but reading it that way felt weird due to that order.

- specifying alternate URL or regional domain for the provider's service (e.g. [IBM Cloud Speech to Text provider](https://github.com/superfaceai/station/blob/31c145aa618555c9084f80423c7094acbd43e02e/providers/ibm-cloud-speech-to-text.json#L6))
- passing additional values required by the provider which cannot be covered by profile's input values (e.g. [Mailgun DOMAIN parameter](https://github.com/superfaceai/station/blob/31c145aa618555c9084f80423c7094acbd43e02e/providers/mailgun.json#L18-L21))

> - passing user's OAuth2 Access Tokens in the runtime (e.g. [Twitter accessToken parameter](https://github.com/superfaceai/station/blob/31c145aa618555c9084f80423c7094acbd43e02e/providers/twitter.json#L10-L13))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- passing user's OAuth2 Access Tokens at runtime (e.g. [Twitter accessToken parameter](https://github.com/superfaceai/station/blob/31c145aa618555c9084f80423c7094acbd43e02e/providers/twitter.json#L10-L13))
```

## Registry {#registry}

> _Registry_ is a web service for distribution and discovery of profiles, maps, and providers. The service accepts [Comlink](#comlink) files for publishing and generates Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) for runtime consumption by [OneSDK](#one-sdk).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Registry_ is a web service for the distribution and discovery of profiles, maps, and providers. The service accepts [Comlink](#comlink) files for publishing, and generates Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) for runtime consumption by [OneSDK](#one-sdk).
```

- passing additional values required by the provider which cannot be covered by profile's input values (e.g. [Mailgun DOMAIN parameter](https://github.com/superfaceai/station/blob/31c145aa618555c9084f80423c7094acbd43e02e/providers/mailgun.json#L18-L21))
- passing user's OAuth2 Access Tokens in the runtime (e.g. [Twitter accessToken parameter](https://github.com/superfaceai/station/blob/31c145aa618555c9084f80423c7094acbd43e02e/providers/twitter.json#L10-L13))

## OneSDK {#one-sdk}

> _OneSDK_ is a reference implementation of the universal API client for Node.js. It is the primary way of using Superface integrations. It can update and execute [Comlink](#comlink) files, automatically switch providers, and report integrations health via built-in [monitoring](../guides/integrations-monitoring.mdx).

Author: Good point, I will rewrite it as such:

> _OneSDK_ is a universal API client for Node.js.

For more details, see [OneSDK reference](./one-sdk.mdx) and its [GitHub repostiory](https://github.com/superfaceai/one-sdk-js).

## super.json {#super-json}

> _super.json_ is the main configuration file used by [OneSDK](#one-sdk) to load profiles, maps, and provider files. By default it is located in `superface/super.json`. It is managed with [Superface CLI](https://github.com/superfaceai/cli).

Reviewer 3: nit: main implies there are other configuration files

> For more details about file's content, see [super.json reference](./superjson.mdx).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details about the file's content, see [super.json reference](./superjson.mdx).
```
